### Introduction

Welcome to the Zimular framework documentation. Zimular is a powerful simulation framework designed to facilitate the creation, execution, and analysis of complex simulations. Whether you're a researcher, engineer, or developer, Zimular provides the tools you need to model and simulate a wide range of systems and processes.

#### Purpose and Goals

The primary goal of the Zimular framework is to simplify the process of building and running simulations, enabling users to quickly prototype and test hypotheses without the need for extensive coding or simulation expertise. By providing a flexible and intuitive platform, Zimular aims to empower users to explore and understand dynamic systems in various domains, including manufacturing, logistics, healthcare, and more.

#### Key Features

- **Modular Architecture**: Zimular adopts a modular architecture, allowing users to define simulation components, workflows, and configurations independently, promoting reusability and scalability.

- **Component-based Modeling**: The framework enables users to model complex systems using components such as resources, processes, queues, and stores, making it easy to represent real-world entities and interactions.

- **Workflow Management**: Zimular provides tools for defining simulation workflows, orchestrating the execution of components, and managing simulation processes, streamlining the simulation development process.

- **Configurability**: Users can customize simulation parameters, configurations, and input data to simulate different scenarios and study system behavior under various conditions.

- **Integration**: Zimular supports integration with external tools and libraries, allowing users to leverage existing resources and technologies to enhance simulation capabilities.

- **Visualization and Analysis**: The framework offers features for visualizing simulation results, generating reports, and analyzing data, enabling users to gain insights into system performance and behavior.

Whether you're a beginner exploring simulation concepts or an experienced practitioner seeking a robust simulation framework, Zimular offers the flexibility and versatility to meet your simulation needs. Dive into the documentation to learn how to harness the power of Zimular for your simulation projects.







### Getting Started

#### Installation

To get started with the Zimular framework, follow these installation instructions:

1. Clone the Zimular repository from GitHub:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/antiloger/Zimular-alpha.git
   ```
or

    ```
    pip install zimular-alpha
    ```


2. Navigate to the cloned directory:
   ```
   cd Zimular
   ```

3. Install the required dependencies using pip:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

#### Dependencies

Zimular has the following dependencies:

- Python 3.x
- SimPy
- Rich
- httpx
- websockets

Ensure that you have Python installed on your system and install the required packages using pip.

#### Quickstart Guide

To quickly run a simple simulation using Zimular, follow these steps:

1. Define your simulation components and workflows using Python classes. Place these classes in the appropriate files within the Zimular project structure.

2. Configure your simulation settings, such as database connections, input data, and output folder locations, in the `settings.py` file.

3. Create a generator function to generate entities for the simulation. This function should yield entities to be processed by the simulation components.

4. In your main script (e.g., `main.py`), initialize the simulation environment, configure the settings, and start the simulation process.

5. Run the simulation script using Python:
   ```
   python main.py
   ```

6. Monitor the simulation progress and analyze the results using the output generated by the framework.

With these steps, you can quickly set up and run a basic simulation using the Zimular framework. Explore the documentation for more detailed instructions and advanced features.

### How to run the simulation

1. run

    if you want run locally without UI, run this command in project directory
    ```
        python main.py runlocal
    ```
    run sever to use the UI,
    ```
        python main.py runserver <userID>
    ```
            UserID - your account ID

2. run test

    if you want run locally without UI, run this command in project directory
    ```
        python mainTest.py runlocal
    ```
    run sever to use the UI,
    ```
        python mainTest.py runserver <userID>
    ```
            UserID - your account ID
